README.md, before:

# Do No Harm License

**A license for developers who write open source code to make the world a better place**

As developers we can no longer close our eyes to the fact that open source code
is being used by individuals and organizations to the detriment of our society.

The Do No Harm License is for developers that agree in general with the principles
of open source software, but are uncomfortable with their software being used
as part of efforts to destroy lives, our environment and our future.

In short, developers who use this license want their code to contribute to a
just world for all.

This license is based on the [BSD 3-clause license](https://spdx.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause.html),
but with specific exclusions for using licensed code to promote or profit from:

* violence, hate and division,
* environmental destruction,
* abuse of human rights,
* the destruction of people’s physical and mental health

[View the license](LICENSE.md)

# How did this come about?

This license was created by one of the developers of [Raisely](https://raisely.com) and [Kepla](https://kepla.com).
We grew out of [Agency](https://agency.sc) building software to help non-profit's and other organisations that make the world a better place.

As we built, we started creating libraries to solve problems we faced, and wanted to give back
to the open source community (which our software is built on).

We strive every day to create tools that make the world a better place, and wanted to
discourage misuse of the code we share for purposes that go against what we stand
for and work for.

# Adoptability

Ultimately the aim is that this license be adopted by the open source community that are
concerned with how our code is used.

We strive to make the license specific and broadly adoptable so that individuals and
organizations can use code under this license without fear of unnecessary or
punitive enforcement.

This means that the license may not always cover every kind of unethical practice that
we would want to exclude so as to prevent the license from being overly complicated
or overly restrictive to the point where virtually no organisation could safely use
the code.

# Contributing

As with all things open source, we welcome suggestions and improvements.
If you would like to suggest improvements, please open an issue.

We prefer additions that:

1. Add clarity,
2. Address an important issue that we have overlooked,
3. Foster adoption (see above), and
4. Are concise (don't require lengthy legal definitions, though we know this isn't always possible).

Issues that are opened in order to debate ideology, express
climate skepticism, promote discrimination or divisiveness, etc. will be closed.

Commit message:

Add usage instructions to standardise abbreviation

README.md, after:

# Do No Harm License

**A license for developers who write open source code to make the world a better place**

As developers we can no longer close our eyes to the fact that open source code
is being used by individuals and organizations to the detriment of our society.

The Do No Harm License is for developers that agree in general with the principles
of open source software, but are uncomfortable with their software being used
as part of efforts to destroy lives, our environment and our future.

In short, developers who use this license want their code to contribute to a
just world for all.

This license is based on the [BSD 3-clause license](https://spdx.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause.html),
but with specific exclusions for using licensed code to promote or profit from:

* violence, hate and division,
* environmental destruction,
* abuse of human rights,
* the destruction of people’s physical and mental health

[View the license](LICENSE.md)

# Usage
Simply copy the LICENSE.md file into your projects, and use the abbreviation `NoHarm` where necessary to describe your choice of license.

# How did this come about?

This license was created by one of the developers of [Raisely](https://raisely.com) and [Kepla](https://kepla.com).
We grew out of [Agency](https://agency.sc) building software to help non-profit's and other organisations that make the world a better place.

As we built, we started creating libraries to solve problems we faced, and wanted to give back
to the open source community (which our software is built on).

We strive every day to create tools that make the world a better place, and wanted to
discourage misuse of the code we share for purposes that go against what we stand
for and work for.

# Adoptability

Ultimately the aim is that this license be adopted by the open source community that are
concerned with how our code is used.

We strive to make the license specific and broadly adoptable so that individuals and
organizations can use code under this license without fear of unnecessary or
punitive enforcement.

This means that the license may not always cover every kind of unethical practice that
we would want to exclude so as to prevent the license from being overly complicated
or overly restrictive to the point where virtually no organisation could safely use
the code.

# Contributing

As with all things open source, we welcome suggestions and improvements.
If you would like to suggest improvements, please open an issue.

We prefer additions that:

1. Add clarity,
2. Address an important issue that we have overlooked,
3. Foster adoption (see above), and
4. Are concise (don't require lengthy legal definitions, though we know this isn't always possible).

Issues that are opened in order to debate ideology, express
climate skepticism, promote discrimination or divisiveness, etc. will be closed.
